README.md, before:

# Roshambo
Welcome to the Roshambo game, click [here](https://bryaro.github.io/Portfolio-2-CodeInstitute/index.html) to visit the website!

![Site view](/assets/documentations/screen-Menu.png)

## Introduction
Welcome to **Roshambo**, a simple version of "Rock Paper Scissors - Lizard Spock" game. This project is a web-based version of the classic game "Rock, Scissors, Paper" and the "Lizard Spock" version. I developed this project by using HTML5, CSS3 and JavaScript.

Created in 2023 by Briar Osman. All rights reserved.

## Features
- **Easy and Hard Levels**: Choose your challenge level for added enjoyment.
- **Game Rules**: Guidelines to ease new players into the game.
- **Reset Option**: Easily restart your game for a fresh experience.
- **User-Friendly Interface**: A straightforward and smooth interface.
- **Mute/Unmute Button**: Control the game buttons sound as you wish. Default muted.
- **Player vs Computer**: Test your skills against a computer opponent.
- **Responsive Design**: Optimized for both desktop and mobile devices.
- **Dynamic Results**: Instant feedback and winner announcements on round five.
---

**MAIN MENU**
![Main Menu](/assets/documentations/screenMain.png)

**PLAY EASY**
![Play Easy](/assets/documentations/screenPlayEasy.png)

**PLAY HARD**
![Play Hard](/assets/documentations/screenPlayHard.png)

**RULES**
![Rules](/assets/documentations/screenRules.png)

**GAME RESULT**
![Result](/assets/documentations/screenVICTORY.png)


View more screenshots on my GitHub documentation folder. Click [Here](https://github.com/Bryaro/Portfolio-2-CodeInstitute/tree/Projects/assets/documentations) !

---

| View | Description          | 
|--------:|----------------------|
|       1 | Home (HTML)          |
|       2 | Play Easy (playeasy.js) |
|       3 | Play Hard (playhard.js) |
|       4 | Game Rules (Modal)   |
|       5 | Reset Game (Modal)   |


### Languages used
| Count | Languages               |
|------:|-------------------------|
|     1 | CSS3                    |
|     2 | JavaScript              |

##### others:
- HTML
- MARKDOWN


Quickstart for writing on GitHub,
to open page [click here](https://docs.github.com/en/get-started/writing-on-github/getting-started-with-writing-and-formatting-on-github/quickstart-for-writing-on-github
) !

Basic writing and formatting syntax,
to open page [click here](https://docs.github.com/en/get-started/writing-on-github/getting-started-with-writing-and-formatting-on-github/basic-writing-and-formatting-syntax) !

## Technologies Used

Balsamiq wireframes and Canva
## Phone and dekstop view
Menu view: ![](/assets/documentations/wireframeMENU.png)

All sections:![](/assets/documentations/wireframeSCREENS.png)
---

Canva used for icon![Icon Logo](/assets/documentations/screenCANVA.png)



## Testing

#### HTML Validator W3C:
![](/assets/documentations/validatorHTML.png)
[Link to this HTML validator](https://validator.w3.org/nu/?doc=https%3A%2F%2Fbryaro.github.io%2FPortfolio-2-CodeInstitute%2F)

#### CSS Validator W3C (Jigsaw):
![](/assets/documentations/validatorCSS.png)
[Link to this CSS validator](https://validator.w3.org/nu/?doc=https%3A%2F%2Fbryaro.github.io%2FPortfolio-2-CodeInstitute%2F)

#### Lighthouse
Mobile:

![](/assets/documentations/mobile-lighthouse.png)

Desktop:

![](/assets/documentations/desktop-lighthouse.png)

### WAVE Web Accessibility valuation tools:
Test result:
![test screenshot WAVE](/assets/documentations/testWAVE.png)

---
### Testing environment
- Modern web browsers like Chrome, Firefox, Safari, and Edge.

## Manual Testing Instructions

### Initial View and Navigation
1. **Start with the Initial View:** Navigate from the header to the footer.
2. **Logo Interaction:** Click on the text logo and verify its functionality.
3. **Mute/Unmute Feature:** Test the mute/unmute feature, ensuring the default is set to mute.

### Sound and Button Functionality
4. **Sound Test:** Conduct a sound test for all interactive buttons.
5. **Button Functionality:** Ensure every button functions as expected.

### Gameplay Testing
6. **Game Modes:** Play through 'Play Easy' and 'Play Hard' modes to completion, checking for consistency and any issues.
7. **Win Scenario:** On winning, confirm the screen turns green and the 'Back to Menu' button works correctly.
8. **Lose Scenario:** On losing, check if the background turns red and the 'Back to Menu' button functions properly.
9. **Reset Feature:** Test the 'Reset' button in both 'Play Easy' and 'Play Hard' modes.

### Responsive Design and Cross-Browser Testing
10. **Responsive Design:** Test web responsiveness using Chrome DevTools.
11. **Device Testing:** Perform tests on as many devices as available at home.
12. **Cross-Browser Compatibility:** Ensure full functionality on Chrome, Firefox, Edge, and Safari.
---

| Feature being tested | Expected Outcome | Testing Performed | Actual Outcome | Result (Pass or fail) |
| -------------------- | ---------------- | ----------------- | -------------- | --------------------- |
| HTML5 | No Error| Yes | No Error | Pass |
| CSS | No Error| Yes | No Error | Pass |
| JavaScript | No Error| Yes | No Error | Pass |

## Project Techniques

- **Responsive Design**: Ensures smooth functionality on different devices and screens.

- **Search Engine Optimization**: Uses meta tags and SEO strategies for better search engine ranking.

- **Accessibility**: Integrates features for enhanced accessibility, catering to diverse users.


## Website Deployment

- **Hosting Method**: The site is hosted via GitHub Pages.

### Quick Deployment Guide:

1. **Repository Setup**: Go to your GitHub Repository and select the 'Settings' tab at the top right.

2. **Branch Selection**: In the 'source' section, use the dropdown to choose the 'Master Branch'.

3. **Saving Changes**: Hit the 'Save' button.

4. **Publication**: The site typically goes live within 2 minutes.
---

### Running the Game
1. **Clone or Download the Repository**
    ```
    git clone [https://github.com/Bryaro/Portfolio-2-CodeInstitute.git]
    ```

2. **Open the Game**
    - Navigate to the project directory.
    - Open `index.html` in your web browser.

---
## Forking and Working with a Repository in Gitpod and Visual Studio Code

### Forking in Gitpod
1. Go to the **Gitpod** website.
2. Enter the URL of the GitHub repository you want to fork in Gitpod's browser address bar and press `Enter`. This opens the repository in a Gitpod workspace.

### Forking on GitHub
1. Navigate to the GitHub page of the repository you want to fork.
2. Click the **Fork** button at the top right of the page. This creates a copy of the repository in your GitHub account.

### Cloning to Visual Studio Code
1. Open **Visual Studio Code** on your local machine.
2. Use the `Git: Clone` command (found in the Command Palette or via the Source Control menu) in Visual Studio Code.
3. Paste the URL of the forked repository (from your GitHub account) when prompted.

### Working in Visual Studio Code
1. Once the repository is cloned, you can open it in Visual Studio Code.
2. Make changes, commit them, and push them back to your fork on GitHub directly from Visual Studio Code.


## Known Bugs [Deploy view]
- Background and other images didnt work after the project deployed on GitHub pages. 
- With google devtools, finding the correct pathway and did antoher git add . --> git commit --> git push and worked fine, images now visible.
![](/assets/documentations/bug.png)

## Contributing
Contributions to the game are welcome. Here are some ways you can contribute:
- Reporting bugs
- Suggesting enhancements
- Sending pull requests with improvements


Click [here](#Roshambo) to return to the top of this readme.

Commit message:

add more sound to soound folder. add click sound playBtn click in script.js. add t technologies text in readme

README.md, after:

# Roshambo
Welcome to the Roshambo game, click [here](https://bryaro.github.io/Portfolio-2-CodeInstitute/index.html) to visit the website!

![Site view](/assets/documentations/screen-Menu.png)

## Introduction
Welcome to **Roshambo**, a simple version of "Rock Paper Scissors - Lizard Spock" game. This project is a web-based version of the classic game "Rock, Scissors, Paper" and the "Lizard Spock" version. I developed this project by using HTML5, CSS3 and JavaScript.

Created in 2023 by Briar Osman. All rights reserved.

## Features
- **Easy and Hard Levels**: Choose your challenge level for added enjoyment.
- **Game Rules**: Guidelines to ease new players into the game.
- **Reset Option**: Easily restart your game for a fresh experience.
- **User-Friendly Interface**: A straightforward and smooth interface.
- **Mute/Unmute Button**: Control the game buttons sound as you wish. Default muted.
- **Player vs Computer**: Test your skills against a computer opponent.
- **Responsive Design**: Optimized for both desktop and mobile devices.
- **Dynamic Results**: Instant feedback and winner announcements on round five.
---

**MAIN MENU**
![Main Menu](/assets/documentations/screenMain.png)

**PLAY EASY**
![Play Easy](/assets/documentations/screenPlayEasy.png)

**PLAY HARD**
![Play Hard](/assets/documentations/screenPlayHard.png)

**RULES**
![Rules](/assets/documentations/screenRules.png)

**GAME RESULT**
![Result](/assets/documentations/screenVICTORY.png)


View more screenshots on my GitHub documentation folder. Click [Here](https://github.com/Bryaro/Portfolio-2-CodeInstitute/tree/Projects/assets/documentations) !

---

| View | Description          | 
|--------:|----------------------|
|       1 | Home (HTML)          |
|       2 | Play Easy (playeasy.js) |
|       3 | Play Hard (playhard.js) |
|       4 | Game Rules (Modal)   |
|       5 | Reset Game (Modal)   |


### Languages used
| Count | Languages               |
|------:|-------------------------|
|     1 | CSS3                    |
|     2 | JavaScript              |

##### others:
- HTML
- MARKDOWN


Quickstart for writing on GitHub,
to open page [click here](https://docs.github.com/en/get-started/writing-on-github/getting-started-with-writing-and-formatting-on-github/quickstart-for-writing-on-github
) !

Basic writing and formatting syntax,
to open page [click here](https://docs.github.com/en/get-started/writing-on-github/getting-started-with-writing-and-formatting-on-github/basic-writing-and-formatting-syntax) !

## Technologies Used

Balsamiq wireframes and Canva
## Phone and dekstop view
Menu view: ![](/assets/documentations/wireframeMENU.png)

All sections:![](/assets/documentations/wireframeSCREENS.png)
---

Canva used for icon![Icon Logo](/assets/documentations/screenCANVA.png)

Sound:
I used [Pixabay](https://pixabay.com/sound-effects/search/buttons/) as they offer: Download buttons royalty-free sound effects to use in your next project.
For this project I Used two sounds:
one for buttons when hovered over, and one sound for click

## Testing

#### HTML Validator W3C:
![](/assets/documentations/validatorHTML.png)
[Link to this HTML validator](https://validator.w3.org/nu/?doc=https%3A%2F%2Fbryaro.github.io%2FPortfolio-2-CodeInstitute%2F)

#### CSS Validator W3C (Jigsaw):
![](/assets/documentations/validatorCSS.png)
[Link to this CSS validator](https://validator.w3.org/nu/?doc=https%3A%2F%2Fbryaro.github.io%2FPortfolio-2-CodeInstitute%2F)

#### Lighthouse
Mobile:

![](/assets/documentations/mobile-lighthouse.png)

Desktop:

![](/assets/documentations/desktop-lighthouse.png)

### WAVE Web Accessibility valuation tools:
Test result:
![test screenshot WAVE](/assets/documentations/testWAVE.png)

---
### Testing environment
- Modern web browsers like Chrome, Firefox, Safari, and Edge.

## Manual Testing Instructions

### Initial View and Navigation
1. **Start with the Initial View:** Navigate from the header to the footer.
2. **Logo Interaction:** Click on the text logo and verify its functionality.
3. **Mute/Unmute Feature:** Test the mute/unmute feature, ensuring the default is set to mute.

### Sound and Button Functionality
4. **Sound Test:** Conduct a sound test for all interactive buttons.
5. **Button Functionality:** Ensure every button functions as expected.

### Gameplay Testing
6. **Game Modes:** Play through 'Play Easy' and 'Play Hard' modes to completion, checking for consistency and any issues.
7. **Win Scenario:** On winning, confirm the screen turns green and the 'Back to Menu' button works correctly.
8. **Lose Scenario:** On losing, check if the background turns red and the 'Back to Menu' button functions properly.
9. **Reset Feature:** Test the 'Reset' button in both 'Play Easy' and 'Play Hard' modes.

### Responsive Design and Cross-Browser Testing
10. **Responsive Design:** Test web responsiveness using Chrome DevTools.
11. **Device Testing:** Perform tests on as many devices as available at home.
12. **Cross-Browser Compatibility:** Ensure full functionality on Chrome, Firefox, Edge, and Safari.
---

| Feature being tested | Expected Outcome | Testing Performed | Actual Outcome | Result (Pass or fail) |
| -------------------- | ---------------- | ----------------- | -------------- | --------------------- |
| HTML5 | No Error| Yes | No Error | Pass |
| CSS | No Error| Yes | No Error | Pass |
| JavaScript | No Error| Yes | No Error | Pass |

## Project Techniques

- **Responsive Design**: Ensures smooth functionality on different devices and screens.

- **Search Engine Optimization**: Uses meta tags and SEO strategies for better search engine ranking.

- **Accessibility**: Integrates features for enhanced accessibility, catering to diverse users.


## Website Deployment

- **Hosting Method**: The site is hosted via GitHub Pages.

### Quick Deployment Guide:

1. **Repository Setup**: Go to your GitHub Repository and select the 'Settings' tab at the top right.

2. **Branch Selection**: In the 'source' section, use the dropdown to choose the 'Master Branch'.

3. **Saving Changes**: Hit the 'Save' button.

4. **Publication**: The site typically goes live within 2 minutes.
---

### Running the Game
1. **Clone or Download the Repository**
    ```
    git clone [https://github.com/Bryaro/Portfolio-2-CodeInstitute.git]
    ```

2. **Open the Game**
    - Navigate to the project directory.
    - Open `index.html` in your web browser.

---
## Forking and Working with a Repository in Gitpod and Visual Studio Code

### Forking in Gitpod
1. Go to the **Gitpod** website.
2. Enter the URL of the GitHub repository you want to fork in Gitpod's browser address bar and press `Enter`. This opens the repository in a Gitpod workspace.

### Forking on GitHub
1. Navigate to the GitHub page of the repository you want to fork.
2. Click the **Fork** button at the top right of the page. This creates a copy of the repository in your GitHub account.

### Cloning to Visual Studio Code
1. Open **Visual Studio Code** on your local machine.
2. Use the `Git: Clone` command (found in the Command Palette or via the Source Control menu) in Visual Studio Code.
3. Paste the URL of the forked repository (from your GitHub account) when prompted.

### Working in Visual Studio Code
1. Once the repository is cloned, you can open it in Visual Studio Code.
2. Make changes, commit them, and push them back to your fork on GitHub directly from Visual Studio Code.


## Known Bugs [Deploy view]
- Background and other images didnt work after the project deployed on GitHub pages. 
- With google devtools, finding the correct pathway and did antoher git add . --> git commit --> git push and worked fine, images now visible.
![](/assets/documentations/bug.png)

## Contributing
Contributions to the game are welcome. Here are some ways you can contribute:
- Reporting bugs
- Suggesting enhancements
- Sending pull requests with improvements


Click [here](#Roshambo) to return to the top of this readme.
